README.md, before:

# How to create a responsive design in FireMonkey ([LearnDelphi.org](https://learndelphi.org) Coding Bootcamp 2023)

[Cette page en français.](LISEZMOI.md)

Source codes, links and documents related to the presentation given by [Patrick Prémartin](https://fr.gravatar.com/patrickpremartinfr) during the [LearnDelphi Coding Bootcamp 2023](https://learndelphi.org/coding-bootcamp-2023/) conference.

## Presentation

The pages of this presentation are available in English.

You can view them [as images](./slides) or [download a PDF](HowToCreateAResponsiveDesignInAFireMonkeyApplication-202308.pdf).

Two webinars were offered in 2019 in French on the same theme:
* **Adaptive interfacing with FireMonkey** to be viewed on [Serial Streameur](https://serialstreameur.fr/webinaire-20190528.php) or [YouTube](https://youtu.be/-t0ki__TcrU)
* **Adaptive interface with VCL** to be viewed on [Serial Streamer](https://serialstreameur.fr/webinaire-20190625.php) or [YouTube](https://youtu.be/BE6rjsXHOI8)

YouTube versions benefit from automatic subtitling and sometimes automatic translation. Not always great to watch again, but you should be able to follow along if need be.

## Replays

You can (re)watch the presentation on the [LearnDelphi.org YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@LearnDelphi) or on [Serial Streameur](https://serialstreameur.fr/learndelphiorg-coding-bootcamp-2023.html) in a few days.

A short version (without demo) of the presentation and the individual videos will also be made available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@DeveloppeurPascal) and [Serial Streameur](https://serialstreameur.fr) or [Apprendre Delphi](https://apprendre-delphi.fr). Follow this code repository to be informed when the videos go online: the video addresses will be indicated here.

## Examples

Several Delphi projects were shown during this presentation. Here are the links to view their source code, download and test them.

* [TFlowLayout](./sample-TFlowLayout)

* [TScaledLayout](./sample-TScaledLayout)

Some sample projects and repositories :

* [Embarcadero/RADStudio11Demos](https://github.com/Embarcadero/RADStudio11Demos)

* ["delphi-sample" topic on GitHub](https://github.com/topics/delphi-sample)

* [FMXExpress/Cross-Platform-Samples](https://github.com/FMXExpress/Cross-Platform-Samples)

* [DeveloppeurPascal/Delphi-FMX-Game-Snippets](https://github.com/DeveloppeurPascal/Delphi-FMX-Game-Snippets)

* [DeveloppeurPascal/Delphi-samples](https://github.com/DeveloppeurPascal/Delphi-samples)

* ["delphi-game" topic on GitHub](https://github.com/topics/delphi-game)

## Links

Many presentations of FireMonkey, mobile design, components, styles and others things around user interfaces and multiplatform programming are available online. Here is a very little selection based on their subjects.

* [Doc Wiki](https://docwiki.embarcadero.com)

* [Delphi Books](https://delphi-books.com)

* [Device specifications](https://www.devicespecifications.com)

* [Science of Great UI - Mark Miller of DevExpress](https://youtu.be/CSj8Hb5OEQU)

* [Native Response Design: Laying out Component for Dynamic Screen Sizing with Stephen Ball](https://youtu.be/0pTm8oB_260)

* [FMX Animations & Tab Transitions](https://youtu.be/btUbZTvW2B0)

* [Customizing Controls with FMX Styles, with Ray Konopka](https://youtu.be/j9XxM7W94p4)

* [Spice Up Your Apps with Animations - Ray Konopka - Delphicon 2023](https://youtu.be/-wan1AgdfAE)

* [Effectively Using Radiant Shapes with Ray Konopka - CodeRageXI](https://youtu.be/Fa3fNS0AJRo)

* [Skia Mobile Splash Screen](https://youtu.be/NYlg0HlaV3c)

## Bonus downloads

If you liked my Windows "[Do you Pascal Case ?](https://www.dropbox.com/s/q0ozh2hvjjh3w37/RADStudio-PascalCase-1920x1080.jpg?dl=1)" background image, you can download it from [my website](https://developpeur-pascal.fr/les-fonds-d-ecran.html) with some others I used during the years for live and online conferences, courses or webinars.

Some of them are also [available as mugs](https://www.leshopdeludo.fr/326-goodies) (in very low quantities). To know why and how, please [read those posts](https://developpeur-pascal.fr/goodies.html).

## Comments and questions

The [discussion area](https://github.com/DeveloppeurPascal/DCB2023-Responsive-Design-With-FireMonkey/discussions) is open on the repository if you have any questions or comments about this presentation. You can also contribute to other discussion forums.

If you drop by [Developpez.com](https://www.developpez.net/forums/f15/environnements-developpement/delphi/) or [Delphi Praxis](https://en.delphipraxis.net), you'll have a chance of getting an answer from me, since I also hang out there from time to time.

## Support the project and its author

If you think this project is useful and want to support it, please make a donation to [its author](https://github.com/DeveloppeurPascal). It will help to maintain the code and binaries.

You can use one of those services :

* [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/DeveloppeurPascal)
* [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/PatrickPremartin)
* [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/patrickpremartin)
* [Paypal](https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/patrickpremartin)

or if you speack french you can [subscribe to Zone Abo](https://zone-abo.fr/nos-abonnements.php) on a monthly or yearly basis and get a lot of resources as videos and articles.

Commit message:

added links to the replays on Serial Streamer and Apprendre Delphi

README.md, after:

# How to create a responsive design in FireMonkey ([LearnDelphi.org](https://learndelphi.org) Coding Bootcamp 2023)

[Cette page en français.](LISEZMOI.md)

Source codes, links and documents related to the presentation given by [Patrick Prémartin](https://fr.gravatar.com/patrickpremartinfr) during the [LearnDelphi Coding Bootcamp 2023](https://learndelphi.org/coding-bootcamp-2023/) conference.

## Presentation

The pages of this presentation are available in English.

You can view them [as images](./slides) or [download a PDF](HowToCreateAResponsiveDesignInAFireMonkeyApplication-202308.pdf).

Two webinars were offered in 2019 in French on the same theme:
* **Adaptive interfacing with FireMonkey** to be viewed on [Serial Streameur](https://serialstreameur.fr/webinaire-20190528.php) or [YouTube](https://youtu.be/-t0ki__TcrU)
* **Adaptive interface with VCL** to be viewed on [Serial Streamer](https://serialstreameur.fr/webinaire-20190625.php) or [YouTube](https://youtu.be/BE6rjsXHOI8)

YouTube versions benefit from automatic subtitling and sometimes automatic translation. Not always great to watch again, but you should be able to follow along if need be.

## Replays

Replays of this week's conference can be seen on [LearnDelphi.org's YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@LearnDelphi) and [Embarcadero Technologies' YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@EmbarcaderoTech).

You can also view or replay this session in [its full 59-minute version](https://serialstreameur.fr/how-to-create-a-responsive-design-in-a-firemonkey-application-coding-bootcamp-2023.html) or [a 7-minute version without the demos](https://serialstreameur.fr/how-to-create-a-responsive-design-in-a-firemonkey-application-short-version.html).

The demos are rebroadcast on [the DeveloppeurPascal blog's YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@DeveloppeurPascal) and [Apprendre Delphi](https://apprendre-delphi.fr/formats-courts.html).

## Examples

Several Delphi projects were shown during this presentation. Here are the links to view their source code, download and test them.

* [TFlowLayout](./sample-TFlowLayout)

* [TScaledLayout](./sample-TScaledLayout)

Some sample projects and repositories :

* [Embarcadero/RADStudio11Demos](https://github.com/Embarcadero/RADStudio11Demos)

* ["delphi-sample" topic on GitHub](https://github.com/topics/delphi-sample)

* [FMXExpress/Cross-Platform-Samples](https://github.com/FMXExpress/Cross-Platform-Samples)

* [DeveloppeurPascal/Delphi-FMX-Game-Snippets](https://github.com/DeveloppeurPascal/Delphi-FMX-Game-Snippets)

* [DeveloppeurPascal/Delphi-samples](https://github.com/DeveloppeurPascal/Delphi-samples)

* ["delphi-game" topic on GitHub](https://github.com/topics/delphi-game)

## Links

Many presentations of FireMonkey, mobile design, components, styles and others things around user interfaces and multiplatform programming are available online. Here is a very little selection based on their subjects.

* [Doc Wiki](https://docwiki.embarcadero.com)

* [Delphi Books](https://delphi-books.com)

* [Device specifications](https://www.devicespecifications.com)

* [Science of Great UI - Mark Miller of DevExpress](https://youtu.be/CSj8Hb5OEQU)

* [Native Response Design: Laying out Component for Dynamic Screen Sizing with Stephen Ball](https://youtu.be/0pTm8oB_260)

* [FMX Animations & Tab Transitions](https://youtu.be/btUbZTvW2B0)

* [Customizing Controls with FMX Styles, with Ray Konopka](https://youtu.be/j9XxM7W94p4)

* [Spice Up Your Apps with Animations - Ray Konopka - Delphicon 2023](https://youtu.be/-wan1AgdfAE)

* [Effectively Using Radiant Shapes with Ray Konopka - CodeRageXI](https://youtu.be/Fa3fNS0AJRo)

* [Skia Mobile Splash Screen](https://youtu.be/NYlg0HlaV3c)

## Bonus downloads

If you liked my Windows "[Do you Pascal Case ?](https://www.dropbox.com/s/q0ozh2hvjjh3w37/RADStudio-PascalCase-1920x1080.jpg?dl=1)" background image, you can download it from [my website](https://developpeur-pascal.fr/les-fonds-d-ecran.html) with some others I used during the years for live and online conferences, courses or webinars.

Some of them are also [available as mugs](https://www.leshopdeludo.fr/326-goodies) (in very low quantities). To know why and how, please [read those posts](https://developpeur-pascal.fr/goodies.html).

## Comments and questions

The [discussion area](https://github.com/DeveloppeurPascal/DCB2023-Responsive-Design-With-FireMonkey/discussions) is open on the repository if you have any questions or comments about this presentation. You can also contribute to other discussion forums.

If you drop by [Developpez.com](https://www.developpez.net/forums/f15/environnements-developpement/delphi/) or [Delphi Praxis](https://en.delphipraxis.net), you'll have a chance of getting an answer from me, since I also hang out there from time to time.

## Support the project and its author

If you think this project is useful and want to support it, please make a donation to [its author](https://github.com/DeveloppeurPascal). It will help to maintain the code and binaries.

You can use one of those services :

* [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/DeveloppeurPascal)
* [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/PatrickPremartin)
* [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/patrickpremartin)
* [Paypal](https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/patrickpremartin)

or if you speack french you can [subscribe to Zone Abo](https://zone-abo.fr/nos-abonnements.php) on a monthly or yearly basis and get a lot of resources as videos and articles.
